- Why is the name James so popular?
  - There are several reasons why the name James is so popular. One reason is that it is a translation of the name Jacob, which is a very common name for boys. Another reason is that it is a Biblical name, and two of Jesus' apostles were named James. Finally, the name James has Scottish roots, and it became more popular when King James VI took the English throne in the 17th century.
- How popular is the name James in the U.S.?
  - Appropriately so for a name with Biblical and royal connections, James has reigned over almost every other boy name since 1900, according to the Social Security Administration's rankings. It was No. 1 from 1940 to 1952. Even when it wasn’t numero uno, it occupied the second, third, and fourth rankings. James is so popular, in fact, that it has been among the top 10 boys' names every single decade except for two, from 1993 to 2013. Even then, it was still hugely popular, never falling below No. 19. In 2014, James bounced back into the top 10 and has been holding steady there ever since—this may be because parents in search of a new trend started opting to name their daughters James around that time, boosting its popularity yet again.
- What are popular foreign variation of James?
  - Given that the most fashionable form of the name "Jimmy" is now "James," it's no surprise that the foreign variations of "Jimmy" are becoming more popular as well. Some of the most popular foreign variations of "Jimmy" include "Diego" (Spanish), "Jaime" (Spanish), "Jacques" (French), "Giacomo" (Italian), "Hamish" (Scottish), "Jaako" (Finnish), "Seamus" (Irish), "Jaap" (Dutch), and "Jago" (Cornish). With so many stylish celebrities choosing foreign variations of "Jimmy" for their sons in recent years, it's clear that this trend is here to stay.
- Is James an English name?
  - James has a long and varied history, appearing in the English-speaking world via Old French. The name was first used in the 13th century and was borne by 13 monarchs over the centuries. The most famous bearer of the name is probably James VI of Scotland, who also became James I of England in 1603. He is most remembered today for authorizing the King James Bible. In the 21st century, the name is still popular, appearing in the name of basketball star LeBron James.
- What are feminine variants of James?
  - For girls, Jacqueline, Jacobina, Jamie and Jameson are all considered variants of James.
- What is a nickname for James?
  - There are plenty of people who go by only the name James, without any sort of nickname. While "Jim" and "Jimmy" are popular nicknames for people named James, there are just as many people who don't use a nickname.